Translate freedroid rpg : how-to

h2.Introduction

The translation of freedroid rpg is a separate part of the freedroid rpg game.
Anyone who want to contribute to the translation is welcome. The translation is
using currently the platform transifex, at http://www.transifex.net .

Join the freedroid rpg translation team

To join the freedroid rpg translation team, you need two things :
A transifex account : you have to go to www.transifex.net, and to subscribe,
in the order to contribute to the freedroid translation. Subscribe at
http://www.transifex.net/accounts/register/ . It's simple, you just have to 
pick up a nick name and a password, then you give your email adress, and finally
you have to confirm your account creation by clicking the link in the mail you
received.
Screen shot :

Once you have done this work, you will have to join one of the teams managing
the freedroid translation. In this order, you have to go visit the freedroid
RPG translation project page on tx.net, at
http://www.transifex.net/projects/p/freedroid-rpg/ , or by submitting a search
for freedroid in the tx research form. Then, click on the freedroid rpg project
component [b]freedroid RPG translation repository[/b], at
http://www.transifex.net/projects/p/freedroid-rpg/c/freedroid-translation/ . 

When it's done, select to what language you wish translate freedroidRPG. You
will reach the team page for your language. Now, you just have to make a
request to join the team. I wish you welcome for your entrance.

Translate

Now you are a translator, and you will probably look for some work to do.
Local translation : a .po files editor : there is several softwares for this
task. Windows users can download poedit : http://www.poedit.net/ . For linux
users, you can use lokalize (kde app), gtranslator (gnome app), or emacs in the
.po mode. I think there is other softwares you can use, it's up to you to look
for something else. What's up now it's done ? You have to go the project page.
Well, and get a bit of Transifex. Transifex permit to use translation language
teams, you know. If you decided to translate freedroid rpg, you should have an
idea of in what language you would like to translate freedroid rpg, isn't it ?

Well, if your language team already exists, you just have to ask me
(elijahbal) or the coordinator of the team to set you as a member. Once you are
a member of a translation team, you should begin to translate easily.

About what be careful when translating ?

The first thing is : we need UTF8. It will shortly be difficult if we dont have
an unified encoding to translate the game and to use for font rendering, etc.
So recall that if you dont use UTF8 by now, you should set up your po editor to
give UTF8 encoded po files. More, Transifex eats only utf8 files. That's why,
you don't have really the choice.

The second thing is : the game is written in english, and then translated into
other languages. You do not need to write dialogs, just to translate. If you
want to write dialogs, it will be a theme rather than a version. Any idea of
dialog should be submitted to the main project directly. But I can receive Idea
and patches for you if you like.


